Read DACLS
We can read the Access Control List properties to search for privileges that can be abused to either escalate to domain admin or add ourselves to different groups that would provide us additional rights we use for pivoting.
We can use the daclread module with the -o option and the TARGET parameter to view a user’s ACL properties. In the screenshot below, we retrieved Alina’s ACLs.

crackmapexec ldap 10.129.204.177 -u grace -p Inlanefreight01! -M daclread -o Target=alina

We can also granularly search for interesting rights to filter on to see who has more privileges to go after in the domain. 
To do so, we add the RIGHTs parameter to the previous command and specify the type of filter we want to use.

The available filters are ‘FullControl,’ ‘ResetPassword’, ‘WriteMembers’, and ‘DCSync’. 
In the example below, we searched for the ResetPasssword rights related to the user Alina and found that the user Peter has the right to change Alina’s password.
We can infer that compromising Peter’s account would also give us access to Alina’s account via password reset.

crackmapexec ldap 10.129.204.x -u grace -p Inlanefreight01! -M daclread -o Target=alina RIGHTS=ResetPassword

The user Peter has ResetPassword rights over Alina.

We can also check what groups or users have FullControl privileges over the user Alina; we can grep for Trustee to list them. 
As seen below, the domain admins and Account Operator groups are the ones who have full control over the user Alina.

If we compromise a user in the Account Operator group, we can have full control over Alina by checking its ACL privileges.

sudo poetry run crackmapexec ldap 10.129.204.x -u grace -p Inlanefreight01! -M daclread -o Target=alina RIGHTS=FullControl

To gain insight into a user’s privileges over others, we can filter by principals such as user accounts, computer accounts, or processes. This is particularly helpful in situations where we have compromised a user and need to understand the extent of their access.

For instance, if we have compromised the user Peter, we may want to investigate what privileges he holds over Alina. In the example below, we can see that Peter has the ability to change Alina’s password, which can be exploited to gain further access to the network.

crackmapexec ldap 10.129.204.x -u grace -p Inlanefreight01! -M daclread -o Target=alina PRINCIPAL=peter






crackmapexec ldap 10.129.204.177 -u grace -p Inlanefreight01! -M daclread -o Target=alina
crackmapexec ldap 10.129.204.177 -u grace -p Inlanefreight01! -M daclread -o Target=alina RIGHTS=ResetPassword
crackmapexec ldap 10.129.204.177 -u grace -p Inlanefreight01! -M daclread -o Target=alina PRINCIPAL=peter
