Traffic, Packet Captures and Wireshark
The Libpcap, Winpcap, and Npcap software libraries implement packet capture functionality
These libraries are what will allow us to the save captured traffic to .pcap files

Wireshark is a flexible application that can be used to capture network traffic.
 It is usually used via its streamlined Graphical User Interface (GUI), but it also has a command line version called tshark

We'll explore capture filters first. 
These will allow the user to decide which data they want Wireshark to store. 
For example, if we want to only capture data traveling to/from a specific IP address, we can use the host capture filter host 192.168.12.34.

we need to first take a brief detour and learn what a network interface is, since we'll be filtering traffic based on it. 
A network interface (or just interface) is a physical or virtual device that allows machines to connect to each other

the eth0 network interface on Linux represents the network card that is physically installed into a computer

right click and follow tcp stream , use display filters, save pcap files. 

One of the most interesting set of options from a security perspective is the ability to export objects. 
By exporting an object, we can recreate and save any files of interest that have been transferred during recording of the pcap. 
Within the File > Export Objects menu, we find that Wireshark supports exporting objects for a number of application layer protocols. 
By clicking on a protocol, Wireshark will scan and display all identified objects in that protocol's data streams. 
We can then save whichever objects we'd like to further assess to our local disk.


Lesser known yet handy Wireshark features
Statistics and analysis tools: Wireshark comes with a range of built-in tools to analyze network data. Examples include the ability to visualize statistics, like protocol hierarchy, endpoints, packet lengths, and more. An example command would be Statistics > Protocol Hierarchy.

Stream Follow: The ability to follow a TCP, UDP, or SSL/TLS stream, which can be very useful for understanding what’s happening in a particular connection. An example would be right-clicking on a packet and selecting Follow > TCP Stream.
    
Exporting and Saving Data: Commands for exporting specific packets, saving packet data, or creating PCAP files can also be useful. For example, File > Export Specified Packets....
Capture Interfaces: Selecting and managing capture interfaces can be helpful. For example, Capture > Options > Manage Interfaces.
Time Display Format and Precision: Commands for changing the time display format and precision might also be helpful for some users. For example, View > Time Display Format > Seconds Since Beginning of Capture.

